Cameras and controller overhaul (#457)
pygfx/pygfx: docs/guide.rst

.. image:: _static/guide_rotating_cube.gif

World objects
-------------

We've briefly mentioned world objects, materials, and geometry. But how do these relate?

A world object represents an object in the world. It has a transform, by which the
object can be positioned (translated, rotated, and scaled), and has a visibility property.
These properties apply to the object itself as well as its children (and their children, etc.).

All objects that have an appearance in the scene are world objects. But there
are also helper objects, lights, and cameras. These are all world objects.

**Geometry**

Most world objects have a geometry. This geometry object contains the
data that defines (the shape of) the object, such as positions, plus
data associated with these positions (normals, texcoords, colors, etc.).
Multiple world objects may share a geometry.

**Materials**

> All visible world objects have a material. This material object defines the

Reviewer: I would remove "visible", invisible objects can have materials too right?

Author: I meant visible as in having an apperance, so excluding lights, cameras, groups, etc. I think I'll change it to say "Most".

Reviewer: I understand, I just worry that our readers may take it literally :)

appearance of the object. Examples can be its color, how it behaves under lighting,
what render-mode is applied, etc. Multiple world objects may share a material.

Cameras and controllers
-----------------------

We've already been using cameras, but let's look at them a bit closer!

**Perspective camera**

There are two main cameras of interest. The first is the :class:`~pygfx.cameras.PerspectiveCamera`,
which is a generic camera intended for 3D content. You can instantiate one
like this:

.. code-block:: python

    camera = gfx.PerspectiveCamera(50, 4/3)

The first argument is the fov (field of view) in degrees. This is a value between 0 and 179,
with typical values < 100.

The second argument is the aspect ratio. A window on screen is usually a rectangle
with 4/3 or 16/9 aspect. The aspect can be set so the contents better fit the window.

> When the fov is zero, the camera operates in orthographic mode, where there is

Reviewer: What is the idea behind supporting zero fov on a perspective camera to effectively change it to an orthographic camera? Is it more convenient than swapping out camera instances?

Author: I tried to explain the reasoning in the top post. I should've mentioned that I added explanations there, sorry!

Reviewer: Ok, I get it now. That's pretty cool!

> no perspective. In this case it'd be good to also specify a 3d argument: the extent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no perspective. In this case it'd be good to also specify a 3rd argument: the extent
```

specifies the size of the thing being viewed. So if your scene is about 400 units in size:

.. code-block:: python

>     camera = gfx.PerspectiveCamera(0, 1, 400)

Reviewer: I don't understand. 400 is the size? In what dimension? Depth? Width? Diagonal?

Author: Width and height, depending on the aspect.

Reviewer: Can you give an example? How would I determine a proper value for extent, as a user?

**Orthographic camera**

The second camera of interest is the :class:`~pygfx.cameras.OrthographicCamera`. It's similar

> to the perspective camera, except it's fov is always zero. It can be instantiated like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the perspective camera, except its fov is always zero. It can be instantiated like this:
```

.. code-block:: python

    camera = gfx.OrthographicCamera(400, 400, maintain_aspect=False)

The two first arguments are the `width` and `height`, which are
typically used to initialize an orthographic camera. They have a direct
relation with aspect and extent. (The extent is their mean, and aspect their ratio.)

The `maintain_aspect` argument can be set to False if the dimensions
do not represent a physical dimension, e.g. for plotting data. The contents
of the view are then stretched to fill the window.

**Orienting cameras**

Camera's can be oriented manually by setting their position, and then set their rotation
to have them look in the correct direction. This last bit can be tricky, unless you use
the :func:`.look_at()<pygfx.cameras.PerspectiveCamera.look_at>` method. This also sets

> the extend (based on what's visible at the target location), so you can now attach

Reviewer: ```
the extent (based on what's visible at the target location), so you can now attach
```

I'm still not sure what "extent" means. Is it the near and far plane? Why does `look_at` handle that? The name implies it only affects orientation.

Author: This extent thing clearly needs a better explanation 😄 

It's basically the equivalent of `width` and `height` (it's the mean of these). So it's a measure for the size of the scene that the camera is to cover.

Based on this value, and the fov, the controller knows how far away from the scene the camera is, and thus e.g. around what point it should rotate. 

Since it's a measure for the size of the scene, it's a nice basis for calculating the near and far clip planes. But it *does not* directly represent the clip planes in any way.

Back to `look_at`, it works exactly as usual, except it assumes that you made the camera look at the center of the scene, so now it knows the distance between camera and scene, and from that it can calculate the extent, so that controllers can just pick up the camera and work with it (and clip planes can be calculated that likely make sense for the current scene).

Reviewer: I think users will want to use `look_at` in all kinds of scenarios to update the orientation of a camera, not just to center it on the scene, and will most commonly want to manage the extent themselves. Is this new behavior optional?

Author: Good point, I'll see if I can work this out.

a controller and interact!

Even easier is using :func:`.show_object()<pygfx.cameras.PerspectiveCamera.show_object>`.

> With this method you specify an object (e.g. the scene) and optionally a direction,

Reviewer: It would make more sense for this method to adjust the near and far plane (assuming that's what "extent" means)

and the camera is positioned and oriented to look at the scene from the given direction.
This is also what ``show()`` calls internally.
A similar method, geared more towards 2D data is :func:`.show_rect()<pygfx.cameras.PerspectiveCamera.show_rect>`.

**Controlling the camera**

A controller allows you to interact with the camera using the mouse. You simply
pass the camera to control when you instantiate it, and then make it listen to
events by connecting it to the renderer or a viewport.

.. code-block:: python

    controller = gfx.OrbitController(camera)
    controller.add_default_event_handlers(renderer)

There are currently two controllers: the :class:`~pygfx.controllers.PanZoomController`
is for 2D content or in-plane visualization, and the :class:`~pygfx.controllers.OrbitController` is for 3D content.

> All controllers work with both perspective and orthographic cameras.

Author: This, and the fact that `show_object` etc show the exact same scene no matter the fov, is the main idea of this PR. Everything Just Works!

**Materials**

All world objects that have an appearance, have a material that defines
that apperance. (Objects that do not have an apperance are for example
groups or cameras.) For each type of object there are typically a few
different material classes, e.g. for meshes you have a
``MeshBasicMaterial`` that is not affected by lights, a
``MeshPhongMaterial`` that applies the Phong light model, and the

> ``MeshStandardMaterial`` that implements the most realistic light model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``MeshStandardMaterial`` that implements a physically-based light model.
```
